
Page
1
of 3
1
CPSC323
Compilers and Program Languages
Course Outline
Spring 2024
Instructor: Song-James Choi, Ph.D.
Office: CS427 Tel: 657-2787257 Fax: 657-2787168 Email:jchoi@fullerton.edu
Lectures: Section 08 TR 1:00 – 2:15 PM and Section 07 T R 2:30 - 3:45 PM
Office Hours: TR 4:30 – 5:30 PM
NOTE:
If you send me an email, I should respond back to you within 24 hours (except
weekends). If you do not get any response back within 3 days, pls resend your
message and/or, try to contact me via other means (such as phone, Canvas message,
chat etc.).
Textbooks:
Thomas W. Parsons, Introduction to Compiler Construction, W.H. Freeman and Co
Robert W. Sebesta, Concepts of Program Languages, 11th ed, Addison Wesley, 2016
Course Objectives:
1. Foundations of the Translation Process
2. Foundations of Lexical Analysis including FSMs
3. Foundations of Syntax Analysis and context free language concepts
4. Foundations of Semantic Analysis and IC Generation
5. Foundations of Object Code Generation
6. Foundations of Optimizations
Course work: There will be three programming assignments, two midterms and a final.
The weight distribution is as follows:
3 Assignments 30% (10 % each)
2 Midterms 15% each
Final Exam 40%
Grading Scale: ( I will be using “-“ and “+” grading system)
90% and above A
80% - 89.9% at least B
70% - 79.9% at least C
60% - 69.9% at least D
Midterm: If you are absent for a midterm exam, you will receive a zero unless you have a valid
excuse. If you miss a midterm with valid excuse, the final will have increased weight. You
cannot miss both midterms in any case.
1 st Midterm (both sections): 3/7 (Thu) and
2 nd Midterm (both sections): 4/18 (Thu)
It takes about 1 week to grade exams.
Final () : The final exam will be comprehensive. A missing final exam will be dealt with
according to the university regulations on the incomplete and withdrawals.
Section 8: 5/14 (Tue) 1:00 – 2:50 PM and
Section 7: 5/16 (Thu) 1:00 – 2:50 PM
All exams are closed book and closed notes unless otherwise announced.
2
Programming Assignments: There will be 3 programming assignments each taking about 3-4
weeks. You should form a group of normally 3.
NO collaboration is allowed between groups. More information will come later ....
Late Assignments: late assignments will be accepted, however there will be deductions. First
day you are late, there will be 20% deduction, and 1% deduction each additional day you are
late. For example, if you are late 1 week, the total deduction will be 20 % (First day) + 6 % (6
additional days) = 26 %
Hence, you can receive maximum of 7.4 points for an assignment instead of 10 points.
Homework Assignments: Suggested homework assignments will be given
periodically. They will not be graded but they will be useful for understanding the
course material.
It is strongly recommended that you try them out.
Attendance: You are expected to attend all lectures. You are responsible for a missed work if you
are absent. Please arrange with a friend to pick up any assignments or handouts.
Drop Deadline: Please see the Schedule of Classes for the deadlines to drop the class.
Few words for Academic Dishonesty
Academic dishonesty include such things as cheating, inventing false information
or citation, plagiarism and helping someone else commit an act of academic
dishonesty.
It usually involves an attempt by a student to show possession of a level of
knowledge or skill which (s)he does not possess.
Cheating is defined as the act of obtaining or attempting to obtain credit for work by
the use of any dishonest, deceptive, fraudulent or unauthorized means. Examples of
cheating include, but are not limited to using notes or aids or help of other students on
tests and examinations in the ways other than those expressly permitted by the
instructor, plagiarism as defined below, tampering with grading procedure, and
collaborating with others on any assignment where such collaboration is expressly
forbidden by the instructor.
Plagiarism is defined as the act of taking the specific substance of another and
offering it as one's own without giving credit to the source (e.g., copying other person's
program) When sources are used, acknowledgment of the original author or source
must be made following standard scholarly practice.
The penalty for academic dishonesty is very serious and will be dealt
according to the university regulations.
Academic Dishonesty: http://www.fullerton.edu/senate/PDF/300/UPS300-021.pdf
Final words
If you have any problem with this course, please contact me as soon as
possible. I want the entire class to do well and for that I am willing to help
you as much as possible. Please, do not hesitate to contact me.
3
Course Description:
This course is an introduction to the principles of Programming Languages and compiler
design. The course will cover some of the theoretical foundations underlying Programming
Languages, compiler design including study on regular languages, FSM, context free languages
and different grammars. Furthermore, the course will deal with the actual construction of the
parts of a compiler and discuss more advanced feature such as optimization.
Topic Book Readings
Introduction Ch1
Lexical analysis Ch2
Syntax analysis Ch3
Theoretical Background (Handouts)
Top-Down, Recursive-descent Parsing etc.
Bottom-up Parsing Ch4
Intermediate Code Generation Ch5
Symbol Table Ch8.1
Object Code Generation Ch7
Lex, Yacc Appendix B
Optimization Ch6
Other topics
Note:
1. Handouts will be distributed throughout the semester
2. Will utilize Titanium from your student Portal
ADA Accommodations
Any student who, because of a disability, may require special arrangements in order to meet
course requirements must register with the Office of Disability Support Services within the first
week of classes. The Office of Disability Support Services’ website is
«http://www.fullerton.edu/DSS/». They can be reached by phone at 657-278-3117 or TDD at
657-278-2786. Their email address is «dsservices@fullerton.edu». Their office is located in
University Hall, room 101. The instructor may request verification of need from the Dean of
Students Office. Students requesting accommodations shall inform their instructors during the
first week of classes about any disability or special needs that may require specific
arrangements/accommodations related to attending class sessions, completing course assignments,
writing papers or quizzes, tests or examinations.
Emergency Procedures
For your own safety and the safety of others, each student is expected to read and understand the
guidelines published at «http://prepare.fullerton.edu/campuspreparedness/». Should an emergency
occur, follow the instructions given to you by faculty, staff, and public safety officials. An
emergency information recording is available by calling the Campus Operation and Emergency
Closures.
